Luminous Clouds of Spontaneous Song
A Prayer to Call the Guru from Afar
by Nyoshul Khen Rinpoché

döné trödral rangjung dümajé
Original simplicity, naturally occurring, uncompounded,
tingsal shyiwa shyönnu bumkü long
Profound luminosity and peace, the youthful vase body’s expanse—
nangsal mi yo chökü lama khyen
Watch over me, dharmakāya guru, whose inner brilliance never wavers!
chönyi zé sar khyolwar jingyi lob
Bless me to reach the exhaustion within dharmatā!1

rangsal magak lhündrub rolpé tsal
Your expressive play, natural luminosity unceasing, is spontaneously present
ku dang yeshe shyingkham gyatso la
As an ocean of kāyas, wisdoms, and pure realms—
nampar longchö dzok kü lama khyen
Watch over me, samboghakāya guru of perfect enjoyment!
yingrik tsé la pebpar jingyi lob
Bless me to reach the fullness of awareness and space!

künkhyab tukjé tsalnang gyu dré gar
As the expression of all-pervasive capacity, dance of the magical net,
ma ngé duljé kham la tak tsenpa
You frolic endlessly in the varied realms of disciples to be tamed.
trulpé ku chok odi yana khyen
Watch over me, Uḍḍiyāna, supreme nirmāṇakāya!
ösal nyam nang pelwar jingyi lob
Bless me, that the visionary experience of luminosity may unfold!

gyal kün dü shyal tsawé lama la
Root guru, the single face and embodiment of all the Victors,
sangye chökur tawé mögü kyi
May my devotion allow me to see you as the dharmakāya buddha,
gonggyü jinlab nying gi tikler khyil
So that the blessings of the Wisdom Lineage seep into my heart,
rikdang chönyi ngönsum tongwar shok
And I may see directly the radiance of awareness—dharmatā!

drimé rangjung rigpé tawa tok
May I realize the view of stainless, naturally occurring awareness,
sal shyak lé dé gompa tsé la khyol
And bring to fullness the meditation that transcends addition or removal.
panglang jatsol dralwé chö chok gi
Through the supreme conduct free from acceptance and rejection, application and exertion,
khordé nyam dal tensi zinpar shok
May I seize the everlasting realm that equally suffuses saṃsāra and nirvāṇa!

khyepar ösal tögal seng lam né
Through the direct path of Crossing Over2 to luminosity in particular,
ku sum lam gyi nangwa chikchar dzok
May the visionary path of the three kāyas be instantly perfected!
po chen jalü yeshe dorjé yi
With the rainbow body of great transference, the wisdom vajra,
shyennang khorwa dong né trukpar shok
May I dredge from its depths the saṃsāra of others’ perceptions!

dorna di né changchub matob bar
In short, may the peerless lord of the family, my glorious Lord Guru,
tsungdral rikdak palgön lama yi
Look after me without a moment’s separation,
kechik dralpa mepar jezung té
From now until I attain awakening!
dön nyi yishyin drubpar jingyi lob
Bless me, that the twofold benefit may be accomplished just as I wish!

In order to fulfil the earnest request, accompanied by gifts of fine silken scarves, of several
disciples who are rich in earnestness, faith, and samaya, Jamyang Dorje, who holds the
name of a khenpo, made this aspiration with a mind of vivid inspiration as a supplement to
the Lord Guru’s Ultimate Guru Sādhana of Simplicity. May it become a cause for receiving
the blessings of the realization of the ultimate lineage!
The line above that reads “Watch over me Uḍḍiyāna, supreme nirmāṇakāya!” may be altered to read
“Watch over me Vimalamitra, supreme nirmāṇakāya!” In the same way, according to the unexcelled
pith instructions of Gyalwa Longchenpa, the name of any other guru may be inserted.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2021 (trans. Maitri Yarnell and Peter Woods, ed. Stefan Mang
and Libby Hogg).

Version: 1.0-20220204
↑ This and the following three verses form an aspiration to realize the four visions of Tögal.↑
Tib. Tögal (thod rgal).